# Causal-discovery

## Install library
### Causal-learn
```pip install causal-learn==1.3.1``` 
In order to work with the independence test of the library, the function ```call()``` of the ```MV_FisherZ``` class in cit.py 
(https://github.com/py-why/causal-learn/blob/0.1.3.0/causallearn/utils/cit.py#L376C9-L377C129) should be adjusted on line 376. The statement
```
assert len(test_wise_deletion_XYcond_rows_index) != 0, \
            "A test-wise deletion fisher-z test appears no overlapping data of involved variables. Please check the input data."
```
should be changed to
```
if len(test_wise_deletion_XYcond_rows_index) == 0:
  print(str(Xs), str(Ys), "A test-wise deletion fisher-z test appears no overlapping data of involved variables. Please check the input data.")
return 1
```

### MLflow
```pip install mlflow==2.3.0```

## Running the code
In main.py, the program can be started by calling ```main()```. It then first calculate the input for the Neural Networks according to the provided location of the dataset.
The input for the Neural Networks and the intermediate steps are stored in the by you provided folder. Futher, the input is splitted into a test set and a train set. 
The last step provides the function for training en testing the Neural Networks. 

## Explanation of the files

The file ``csv_to_df.py`` transfers the provided CSV to a cleaned Dataframe.

The file ``df_to_tro.py`` converts the cleaned Dataframe to TrainRideObjects (TRO).

The file ``TrainRideObjects.py`` consists of the TrainRideObject class.

The file ```FastBackgroundKnowledge.py``` consist of the FastBackgroundKnowledge class, which is used in the ``PC_and_background.py``

The file ``createBackgroundKnowledge.py`` creates the FastBackgroundKnowledge class by including domain knowledge. 

The file ```PC_and_background.py``` performs a causal discovery method on the provided data while using background knowledge. 

The file ``graph_to_nn_input.py`` transfers the output graph generated by the PC_and_background.py and combines the external variables provided in the TRO matrix.

The file ``NN_input_row.py`` consists of a NN_input_row class that combines all the information of one event: the causal graph knowledge and the external variables.

The file ``NeuralNetwork.py`` consists of the several functions for the Neural Networks (training and testing)

The file ``Utils.py`` contain helper functions for the other files. One of the functions identifies the missing distances in the provided CSV file with distances, such that it can be adjusted by the user. 

The file ``main.py`` consist of a ``main()`` function that runs the all the steps such that a provided CSV is converted to a causal graph, NN-input and trained or tested Neural Networks.

## One of the possible errors and how to fix it
The file "Dienstregelpuntverbindingen_afstanden.csv" is used in the code to determine the distances between two events. However, it can occur that 
the distance between two locations is not provided. To find which distances are missing, the function ```traveldistance_tester()``` can be used.
This function tests if all the neccesary distances are present within the provided dataset. If this is not provided,
    the missing connections are printed, such that it is known which need to be included manually in the file. It uses the schedule to test all next stops
